---
title: Upgrading UE-V from previous releases
description: Explains how to upgrade to the latest version of UE-V.
author: MaggiePucciEvans
ms.pagetype: mdop, virtualization
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.prod: w10
---

# Upgrade to UE-V for Windows, version 1607

Applies to: Windows 10, version 1607

If you’re already using UE-V 2.x and you’re planning to upgrade user devices to Windows 10, version 1607 or later releases, you need to make only a few adjustments to your existing environment. These steps are explained in more detail below.

1.	Upgrade user devices to Windows 10, version 1607 or later release. Performing an in-place upgrade automatically installs the UE-V service, updates the settings location path, and migrates users’ UE-V configurations.
2.	Verify that UE-V settings were migrated correctly.
3.	Enable the UE-V service on user devices. 
4.	Install the UE-V template generator.

Important: You can upgrade your existing UE-V installation to Windows 10 from UE-V versions 2.1 or 2.0 only. If you are using a previous version of UE-V, you’ll need to upgrade from that version to UE-V 2.x before you upgrade to Windows 10.   
Upgrade user devices to Windows 10, version 1607

Performing an in-place upgrade on user devices automatically installs the UE-V service and migrates UE-V settings. See the Windows 10 documentation for information about upgrading user devices to Windows 10. 

Verify that UE-V settings were migrated correctly (existing installations only)
After upgrading a user device to Windows 10, it’s important to verify that UE-V settings and template registrations were migrated correctly during the upgrade. You can verify UE-V settings using Windows Powershell or the device’s registry.

To verify UE-V settings using Windows PowerShell:

1.	Run PowerShell as Administrator and enter Get-UEVConfiguration to view current configurations.
2.	Check that the settings were successfully updated.
3.	Enter Get-UEVTemplate to check that your templates are still registered.
Note: You’ll need to register the Notepad template again after you upgrade the device to Windows 10. 
To verify UE-V settings using the device’s registry:

1.	In a command prompt, run Regedit as Administrator.
2.	Navigate to HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\UEV\Agent\Configuration.
3.	Verify that the settings storage path and the settings template catalog path are pointing to the same locations as before you upgraded the device to Windows 10. 

Enable the UE-V service on user devices
The UE-V service is the client-side component that captures user-personalized application and Windows settings and saves them in settings packages. Settings packages are built, locally stored, and copied to the settings storage location. 

With Windows 10, version 1607 and later, the UE-V service is installed on user devices. Enable the service to start using UE-V. You can enable the service with the Group Policy editor or with Windows PowerShell. 

Important: The UE-V agent used in prior releases of UE-V is not supported in Windows 10. The UE-V service included with Windows 10, version 1607 and later releases, does not include the agent user interface and is configurable through cmdlets or registry settings only.

To enable the UE-V service with Group Policy:
5.	Open the device’s Group Policy Editor.
6.	Navigate to Computer Configuration > Administrative Templates > Windows Components > Microsoft User Experience Virtualization. 
7.	Run Enable UEV.
8.	Restart the device.
To enable the UE-V service with Windows PowerShell:
4.	Run PowerShell as Administrator and enter Enable-UEV.
5.	Restart the device.
6.	Enter Get-UEVStatus to verify that the service was successfully enabled.

Install the UE-V template generator

The UE-V template generator is included in the Windows Assessment and Deployment Kit (ADK) for Windows 10. 
To install the UE-V template generator:

1.	Go to https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/hardware/windows-assessment-deployment-kit to access the ADK. 
2.	Click or press the Get Windows ADK for Windows 10 button on this page to start the ADK installer. On the screen pictured below, select Microsoft User Experience Virtualization (UE-V) Template Generator and then click or press Install.
 
3.	To open the generator, select Microsoft User Experience Virtualization Generator from the Start menu. 



